---
layout: page
title: About
---

This project was first imagined in the last few weeks of 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic brought upon a “new wave” of anti-Asian racism. Chinatowns across North America faced overt acts of violence, especially against elders, and sudden drops in tourism which have endangered many independent, family-run businesses. In Montreal, there was discussion about whether Chinatown could “survive” the pandemic. Yet these developments are not new—Montreal Chinatown has long been threatened by racism, gentrification, displacement, and neglect. What would Chinatown look like if we imagined its future beyond survival? If we valued its historical and cultural significance like we did other areas of the city, like Old Montreal? If we centered the lives of its most marginalized residents? “Beyond Survival” hopes to accessibly generate conversations around these questions by exploring the past, present, and future of Chinatown.

## Land Acknowledgement

Montreal Chinatown is located on unceded and unsurrendered land of the Kanien’kehá:ka Nation. This project wishes to avoid a flat narrative of oppression that denies or is uncritical of ongoing Indigenous dispossession. Though Asian-identified settlers have long been afflicted by processes of colonialism and imperialism, they too have contributed to Indigenous dispossession on Turtle Island and perpetuated anti-Indigenous racism. Too often, Asian demands for belonging in Canadian society have relied on nationalist sentiment; creating new narratives does not mean re-framing dominant “Canadian” stories to simply include Asian-settlers. Instead, we must contemplate the meanings of national identity, racial capitalism, land appropriation, and their disproportionate effects on the material conditions of racialized peoples. This project seeks a just future for Montreal Chinatown; a future that refuses displacement and gentrification; a future that foregrounds Asian-Indigenous solidarity. For example, the community spaces that this project proposes must also benefit Indigenous community members. Building solidarity is a long-term struggle, one that cannot be hastily solved by a land acknowledgement. Our [resources and acknowledgements page][{{ site.baseurl }}/resources/] includes a list of resources on Asian-Indigenous relations to build mutual understanding; with hope, a start to the road ahead.
